# Independence, basis, and dimension


# Linear independence
Suppose $A$ is an $m$ by $n$ matrix with $m<n$ (so $A\mathbf{x} =\mathbf{b}$ has more unknowns than equations. $A$ has at least one free variable, so there are nonzero solutions to $A\mathbf{x} =\mathbf{0}$. $A$ combination of the column is zero, so the column of this $A$ are _dependent_. )

We say vectors $\mathbf{x_1}, \mathbf{x_2},\cdots \mathbf{x_n}$ are _linearly independent_ (or just independent) if $c_1\mathbf{x_1}+c_2\mathbf{x_2}+\cdots+c_n\mathbf{x_n}=\mathbf{0}$ only when $c_1,c_2,\cdots,c_n$ are all 0.

Two vectors are independent if they do not lie on the same line. Three vectors are independent if they do not lie in the same plane. 

If the columns of $A$ are independent then all columns are pivot columns, the rank of $A$ is $n$, and there are no free variables. If the columns of $A$ are dependent then the rank of $A$ is less than $n$ and there are free variables.

# Spanning a space
If vectors $\mathbf{v_1},\mathbf{v_2},\cdots,\mathbf{v_k}$ span a space $S$, then $S$ is the smallest space containing those vectors.

# Basis and dimension
A _basis_ for a vector space is a sequence of vectors $\mathbf{v_1},\mathbf{v_2},\cdots,\mathbf{v_d}$ with two properties:
- $\mathbf{v_1},\mathbf{v_2},\cdots,\mathbf{v_d}$ are independent
- $\mathbf{v_1},\mathbf{v_2},\cdots,\mathbf{v_d}$ span the vector space.

In general, $n$ vectors in $\mathbb{R}^n$ form a basis if they are the column vectors of an invertible matrix.

# Bases of a column space and nullspace
In fact, for any matrix $A$ we can say:
$$
rank(A) =number \ of \ pivot\ columns\ of \ A=dimension\ of\ C(A)
$$
 Note that matrices have a rank but not a dimension. Subspaces have a dimension but not a rank.

And We'll see that dimension of $N(A) =$ number of free variables $=n-r$


