# Permutations 
Multiplication by a permutation matrix $P$ swaps the rows of a matrix; when applying the method of elimination we use permutation matrices to move zeros out of pivot positions. Our factorization $A=LU$ then becomes $PA=LU$, where $P$ is a permutation matrix which reorders any number of rows of $A$. Recall that $P^{-1}=P^T$, i.e. that $P^TP=I$.

# Transposes
A matrix $A$ is symmetric if $A^T=A$. Given any matrix $R$ (not necessarily square) the product $R^TR$ is always symmetric because $(R^TR)^T = R^TR$.

# Vector spaces
We can add vectors and multiply them by numbers, which means we can discuss *linear combinations* of vectors. These combinations follow the rules of a *vector space*.

$\mathbb{R}^n$ means the set of (column) vectors with $n$ real number components.

## Closure
if a collection of vectors is closed under linear combinations (i.e. under addition and multiplication by any real numbers), and if multiplication and addition behave in a reasonable way, then we call that collection a *vector space*.

构成向量空间要满足加法封闭和乘法封闭。

## Subspaces
A vector space that is contained inside of another vector space is called a *sub-space* of that space. For example, take any non-zero vector $\mathbf{v}$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$. Then the set of all vectors $c\,\mathbf{v}$, where $c$ is a real number, forms a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^2$. This collection of vectors describes a line through $\left[ \begin{array}{c}0\\0\end{array}\right]$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ and is closed under addition.

A line in $\mathbb{R}^2$ that does not pass through the origin is not a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^2$. Multiplying any vector on that line by 0 gives the zero vector, which does not lie on the line. Every subspace must contain the zero vector because vector spaces are closed under multiplication.

The subspaces of $\mathbb{R}^2$ are:
1. all of $R^2$,
2. any line through $\left[ \begin{array}{c}0\\0\end{array}\right]$ and 
3. the zero vector alone (Z).

The subspaces of $\mathbb{R}^3$ are:
1. all of $R^3$,
2. any plane through the origin,
3. any line through the origin, and 
4. the zero vector alone (Z).

## Column space
Given a matrix $A$ with columns in $\mathbb{R}^3$, these columns and all their linear combinations form a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^3$. This is the *column space* $C(A)$.

